the navy's marine mammal program has been in existence since the early
seventies where they were using dolphins and sea lions to conduct different
operations for example the dolphins back in Vietnam were actually
brought there and we're doing anti swimmer anti diver defense
and cam Ranh bay and then the sea lions came online when they discovered
that it was a lot more faster and effective to use the C. lines
that can dive down to several hundred feet of depth to recover training
minds as opposed to sending down a diver who could take you know
hours to get down to a depth of that hook up and then come back to
the surface so the navy's been using marine mammals since then to
basically conduct you know mine countermeasures as well as anti swimmer
and diver defense and they still continue to have them even though
we are moving forward with advanced technology the marine mammal
systems are still an option for the navy to use